i have spent almost all aspects of my
career in trying to take what exists and
prove it what we find with grammarly
business is huge upside
in ineffective communication is one of
the silent killers of business
performance miscommunication just in a
written form cost us upwards of six
percent of our gdp
we're providing deeper and richer
suggestions around the actual structure
the delivery to make sure it's actually
engaging and has the right tone
think about how much effort and time and
energy that marketers put into building
their brand the challenges to delivering
that consistent high quality brand
experience we actually see faster and
faster speed of the actual individual
support rep making fewer and fewer
mistakes because they're getting better
in learning in real time
technologies are about challenging
status quos not just about optimizing on
the status quo
companies are going to have to move into
a world where they are solving for the
and of quality and efficiency quality
and speed rather than a trade-off
mindset i think that is a subtle but
powerful change
all right so let's jump in so as uh as
mentioned i want to talk a little bit
about the learnings we have had at
grammarly
as we've moved from a very successful uh
consumer business to expand uh from that
business to also include smb and now uh
enterprise and just share with you a few
of the learnings that we've had over
the last few years
now
why is this uh important to to talk
about
the
you know recent research will show over
half of of ceos are citing not just
growth as a top three gender item but
growth into new markets and i think
given everything we've been through over
the last few years
we see more companies taking a bigger
step back than ever before that's what
the research would say uh and so we
thought this topic would be uh timely uh
if your organization is more likely to
not to be one that is seeking growth in
the new segment and that's obviously uh
challenging when you're going into an
unknown space so with that
let me uh let me dive in
i'm going to start by just telling a
little bit about grambling where we are
on our journey um grammys was founded a
little over a decade ago
uh as a very successful we call it a
consumer product individuals purchase
and use a writing assistant to help them
in their professional lives and their
edu as students in education setting and
in their personal lives
we have grown over that time uh quite
substantially with over 30 million daily
users
and we've grown also in terms of what we
offer so we have
uh now an offering for bradley business
which we'll talk through today we have
an offering for uh edu organizations for
non-profits
and most recently
uh we now have launched agreement for
developers which allows developers to
build grammarly natively into web
applications
and so we've we've continued to increase
the the offers that we have out in the
market and if you noticed what i
described we're increasingly uh
moving into uh businesses where we are
doing
b2b uh relationships and offering b2b
services and uh products uh to the
market that that's that's the journey
we're going to focus on today
that's a little bit about where we are
in our journey and grammarly business
the the point of discussion today has
been around for about four years
although it really comes in in two
uh two phases to this point which i'll
talk a little bit about
so with that
we're going to
talk through a couple things the first
is at the outset
ensuring that
assumptions are not made by leadership
implicitly that come back and bite you
uh later on and so try to be his eyes
wide open as possible about some of
those assumptions that oftentimes lead
to pitfalls
then
think about the guiding principles uh
that at least we found as being valuable
to help us
start to navigate an ambiguous path
uh and then talking a little bit about
the way some of the people processing
technology
uh decisioning day-to-day management
kind of operations had to change and had
to be thought about differently
as we got underway and a little bit in
retrospect some clarity in retrospect of
what probably could have done a little
bit more of then we'll summarize it up
with some top takeaways so that's how
we're going to use the remainder of our
time all right
so with that
let's talk first about
the uh
the leadership assumptions that can get
in the way
you know
one of the things i know here is like
most organizations that are looking for
growth in new areas we're building off
the success of where we've come from and
in grammarly that
is our consumer business
and it's easy as a result to
implicitly make a set of assumptions
that then later you realize we're
actually incorrect and you've lost time
and moreover you've lost the opportunity
to learn in the early stages of your
efforts so here's four
uh that i'll i'll share with you
the first is
extensibility you know on the back of a
such a successful business
uh and particularly in our business we
saw a lot of professionals
uh bringing grammarly to work because we
were helping them be better in their
day-to-day
uh their day-to-day efforts as
professionals
we made the assumption that then uh we
would be applicable to the business
uh and some of that was correct because
we already were operating a business but
more of it was not uh and as a result it
took us time to realize where the gaps
were
and so the extensibility of our product
market fit simply because it was being
used in a work setting was not the same
thing as becoming a b2b product and
having the right product market fit that
we wanted and so extensibility not being
guaranteed is is important and one of
the
one of the areas here that i'll just
share with you quickly is
you know when we first launched
grammarly business we actually saw a lot
of demand
and that demand for the product
actually uh distracted us from
understanding where the extensibility of
our consumer product that we're building
off of stocks
and so it in fact
exacerbated the challenge of this issue
where we thought we had greater product
market fit that we did and it took us
time to kind of work through that first
wave of demand that you see with any new
offering to actually get down to okay
where are we really uh working in are we
offering the value that we really want
to be offering to institutions and so
there's a little bit of noise there that
i'd say is the red herring for folks
that are seeing early success if you've
also made this uh assumption
it's time to be just a little wary and
and double check
second the value prop split
so in a consumer offering and as you
migrate into smb for example out of a
consumer offering on your way to
enterprise
it's easy to not realize how much over
the course of that journey the buyer
and the user are going to be different
people the admin will be a different
person and then influencers around the
decision will start to come up
all of these things are one person in
the same in a consumer or sale in smb
sale they may be very tightly linked
with shared responsibilities and an
enterprise sale enterprise decisioning
they're very different and similarly for
success in delivering value in the
institution you need to actually be
meeting the needs of these folks
differently in their agenda differently
and
not splitting that out not being very
clear about user versus buyer is just
one very simple delineation
early on
uh is an easy way again to see yourself
getting traction in certain segments
where they remain close like smb
and have to really find out through pain
uh when those agendas split between a
buyer and a user for example over time
the third is go to market mechanisms
they don't translate uh this is kind of
an obvious statement probably there's
enterprise and consumer are very
different uh but again coming from one
to the other
uh we had a number of things uh both in
the mechanisms the look and feel of our
marketing the messaging and so on
down to then the way we evaluated
ourselves uh fund the story is our first
outbound campaign uh that we did for
grammarly business uh once we started to
sort of tighten up about two years ago
kind of realized some of these learnings
and reset uh was driven by our b2c uh
teammates and they had been so
accustomed to running tests in the
market running campaigns seeing results
that were highly quantified down to
decimal points within two weeks
that when we had two weeks of just a few
leads coming in from our outbound
campaign and we were halfway through a
marketing sequence it was thought of as
a failure when in fact it was actually
performing a benchmark it was just such
a new area so
uh for the team so understanding making
sure that people really realize that
the marketing the go to market
mechanisms will not translate it's not
just about product market fit
and then last beware strategies
uh that that rhyme i think this is just
a good general rule of thumb but in
particular land and expand you know we
look at so many organizations out there
that have such strong expansion
mechanisms and and they're the darlings
of the tech world we make the assumption
because we're looking at all those
winning uh plays that that'll happen uh
to us as well the reality is we have
been fortunate we do have a strong
expansion motion but the reality is it
didn't come as naturally uh as it would
say to a company that had a different
product that was networks like
collaborative software we do not have a
network product uh and going eyes wide
open to that was very important so we've
got our expectations right and we built
the muscles that we had to build more
than half of companies out there have
very weak to negative uh net dollar
retention metrics
and so making this assumption early on
is a is a very dangerous one uh and it
can lead to actually a pretty tricky
economic structure if you do start to
land a lot of logos and they don't know
what to do with them and start to see
them uh slip back
all right with that those are the those
are the assumptions that i would say the
sidebar that i have here on channel
conflict um
coming out of consumer right you have a
consumer revenue line you have a b2b
revenue line to the extent that you have
professionals that are moving from an
individual product to the b2b product
um
you know there can be there can be a lot
of conflicts in the middle of the
organization it's very important to make
sure that everyone realizes that they're
rowing in the same direction and too
early on
uh we can assume that people get it when
in fact in their day to day they're
still optimizing for their number so
doing everything you can to work out
channel conflict is absolutely critical
and that is both between say the
consumer and b2b side of the business to
the extent there is some cannibalization
it's also then within a different
channels your business your self-serve
channel for example and your sales
channel
uh and so we do a number of things to
actually work down channel conflict
particularly in the early days so that
we could advance our learning as much as
possible and not get in our own way of
optimizing for short-term or siloed
metrics rather than the big picture and
uh and missing the opportunity to drive
learnings as a result so those are the
assumptions that i would want to flag
first
let's go to guiding principles
okay so now if you've got those
assumptions in check and and i've shared
with you some of the learnings we had
in retrospect on those what were some of
the guiding principles that uh worked
for us as we uh started coming out of
the gates
first
you know
near-term growth is not the goal when i
stepped into this role we'd actually
already
promised a very strong growth to the
board on the revenue line
but it was very clear very quickly
particularly in light of
digging in and realizing some of those
assumptions we we'd made and the fact
that uh we need to actually revisit them
that we really needed to take a build
and learn mindset not an optimized
mindset and that is obviously very
difficult sometimes when you work inside
an organization that is scaled in other
places and where optimization is
actually
a very important part of what drives
success
and so we really had to think about the
fact that we need to create a business
we need to create customers in our case
in creating a category that's doubly
important
so that was one guiding principle i
think that we we got right uh once we we
took a step back
the second was uh this is about
expanding the culture uh in particular
when you think about a a digitally
driven uh consumer business going to a
business that will have
digital channels as well as sales
channels like
enterprise sales channels customer
success
um
there's a lot of fear there's there's
discomfort in the organization with that
transition particularly an organization
like ours where so many people the
formative years of their career have
been spent
uh here in a very successful way of
doing things around one way of doing
things and so we really had to
we really had to make people comfortable
and and
and be dedicated to the idea that the
culture was going to evolve
um i think the the shorthand example
here is gosh does this mean we're gonna
have a bunch of enterprise sales people
running around and like ringing gongs
and all of that and there's a stereotype
around all that and that was scary for
some folks
um
i think in this one you have to have the
courage and you have to instill the
courage in the organization that
expanding the culture broadening that
aperture and thinking about diversity in
a lot of different ways as you think
about what is needed to build the
organization the future is very
important and if you're ever in a point
of comfort you may not be acting
courageously enough uh for brene brown
uh who i find very insightful
uh and then last uh this is coming from
our ceo but our values we have a set of
values eager is the acronym uh there's a
set of values that we drive almost every
decision uh with
uh and i'm gonna get back to one more
value on the next page but
um but that always is our north star uh
as to whether or not we are operating
behaving and thinking about the business
in the right way
um and so when you're that when we
started navigating uh some of this
unknown space when we had setbacks
our uh putting our values first rather
than any specific business objective uh
has been a very powerful touchdown for
the entire organization as well as over
time and as we've evolved from one phase
to the next
okay so how does this translate into a
few things that we did differently or
valuable for us to do differently just
an example of people process and
technology
well first picking up from the last page
um
as
as we move forward it's easy to be
distracted particularly if you're
feeling the pressures of growth to the
best way to optimize uh for that growth
or to build toward that growth in a very
myopic way one of the touchstones in our
values that also translates into every
operating decision we make is ensuring
that we are bringing value first to our
customers and users before we ever think
about
our revenue line
and second
making sure that what we are doing earns
the right
to have very deep trust
with those users and that from a
consumer basis as a consumer
organization but as a b2b organization
similarly
uh encapsulates the users and the
employees if you will of that
organization so that each one of them
trusts grammarly but also the
institution as well we make a lot of
investments and a lot of focus goes
there first the revenue line is always
second
so that's party number one and when you
go through decision making that
literally means a meeting sometimes
you're stopping a discussion to say wait
a minute
this we need to flip the order of this
discussion and first talk about how this
makes things better for the customer
before we talk about anything else
all right
investing in people having team
or sorry task relevant maturity
is critical
uh i personally love
working with my team i love growing them
and so on i know that i've made a few
mistakes over the last couple years in
terms of stretching people too far for
too long
outside of
their
area of expertise and the spirit of
growing them and challenging them
but it really
more often than not i tend to be a
little over biased on that uh toward
that over optimistic
uh moving probably a little more quickly
on uh getting the right team members
with right experience and pattern
recognition in place is important what i
would just say on that one is super
critical is bringing people in for
pattern recognition has to be paired and
with their expertise has to be paired
with the right values and those things
have to be separately and uh and
collectively
uh met in terms of a bar for hiring i
would not i would be very worried about
a trade-off and in particular in those
values making sure that they're curious
it's easy to have folks conflate the
success they had at one organization and
folks on both sides of the table the
candidate coming in the hiring manager
to complete the success at one
organization with the applicability of
those learnings and those toolkits in in
in the next organization and so you want
to have that curiosity ensure you're not
uh just rushing in with folks bringing
the wrong playbooks in but you do want
to get that experience and pattern
recognition
second
think about what operation excellence
means in you know consumer business
operational excellence can mean things
like
uh being very in particular a scaled one
like we had operational excellence meant
things like being very precise getting
things very tight being very thoughtful
in a startup you're going to be thinking
more 80 20 you have to be more back to
the envelope more fast fail
uh more qualitative information
in b2b leading indicators and behaviors
become very very critical to learn from
rather than waiting until you get to the
end state because of how long the cycle
times are and how that will deteriorate
your learning so rethinking operational
excellence and being thoughtful about
that
along the lines of those examples i just
gave is very very important as you're
moving up market
and then productize everything uh as as
we have gone through this journey we
have a growing side of our organization
that is sales customer success sales
engineering bdrs sdrs and so on uh to
complement our growth and product teams
and others as we try to get the whole
product of grammarly business to market
as effectively as possible and and um
and serve enterprises
uh and the right to serve enterprises at
real scale
it's easy to then get into a world of
more headcount equals better performance
and
ensuring particularly the leaders in
those areas of the organization that
they share the same responsibility
as any other leader in the organization
on the product side to be driving
productivity to be productizing things
to be looking at places where
uh manual work should actually be
removed from day one is very important
this is a difficult thing to instill in
an organization later uh once you've
started a scale once you have uh certain
cost burdens but also once you have
certain precedence in place in that side
of the order
all right so
we go to
i'm going to go to the top takeaway so
you have some pitfalls to avoid that are
implicit assumptions
you can keep those in check early enough
and shine light on them that can really
help you then have guiding principles
coming out of the gates that we found at
least helpful here as we try to go up
market and then there's some examples of
the type of people process and
technology
related ways of thinking about that
enterprise side of the business that are
very important to to get right as you
start
your hiring as you start to set some
precedence out in the business
cutting across all that if i
reflect on
uh the top learnings uh here's here are
five that i would uh take away
um
coming off a i it i would almost some of
these might feel a little hyperbolic uh
but i think they're important i i think
is probably in retrospect probably would
have been better if we'd even taken a
stronger stance to to write down the
reasons why our current strategy to go
into b2b and to go into enterprise would
not work
rather than
allowing ourselves to um
to be over optimistic based on the
momentum we saw with professionals in
our individual business as well as the
early days and results that we got as we
first launched gremlin business i think
if we take in not a pessimistic lens but
i think if we take a more critical and
objective lens while maintaining a
positive attitude about our growth uh
and our future i think we would have
actually pulled some learnings forward
i think i've said this one before but
it's worth saying again
it's very very easy particularly as you
have more and more folks coming in from
other organizations
looking for ways to
show impact
it's really important that all aspects
of the business are trying to figure out
ways to add more value to customers
and to make those customers feel more
and more comfortable with with doing
business uh with you and i know for us
this is a really big deal always before
uh extracting value an example from a
sales case where some people scratch
their heads and say well how is that
applicable in sales is just taking the
time to go deeper to understand what a
customer's needs are to show
to make sure that we understand the
impact that we're going to have that is
a way and that is part of the whole
product market fit um that's important
to get right as we go to enterprise and
for us that was a big that was a big
place in our sales team for muscle
building and continues to be
um
the foundation for enterprise is not
necessarily sexy
there's a lot of
features that can be put out very
quickly uh there are a lot of
sales materials and assets that can be
produced
that are very shiny but the reality is
getting this right from product to
underlying
go-to-market systems
to some of the basics of what it takes
uh to operate in each function and type
those functions together is not the
sexiest work but it is very very
important um
and uh building a strong foundation
uh for the next two three periods out um
i i believe is is something that um
is oftentimes overlooked and seen as a
necessary evil
uh and i think for for us that has not
been the case so much of what i talked
about the previous slides is just so
foundational uh but it's worth calling
out because it is so easy to move that
past quickly
i think we talked about investing in
people uh that is just absolutely
critical the and values is very
important there again
having team members come in with the
right experience and they're coming from
the right backgrounds organizations that
you want to learn from if that's not
paired up with the right values and they
don't independently objectively meet the
right values particularly curiosity
empathy and things like that um
uh you're gonna you're gonna gain far
less than if you hold both of those bars
as uh
as critical and required for any any
higher
and then the last one is reserve the
right to be smarter tomorrow uh there
are plenty of plans that we have put in
place there are plenty of commitments
that we put in place uh i think i
mentioned that even when i started we
had revenue goals already committed to
the board for the next year that frankly
we had to unwind um and that's not just
on the revenue line i think in general
should always be uh reserve the right to
be smarter tomorrow and empower the
teams to do that it shouldn't take away
from the ability to execute stay focused
but it also should make sure that
learnings are being surfaced as quickly
as possible and uh and then we're able
to use them
so with that
i am going to uh stop sharing
that's what i have for today hopefully
uh folks i found that valuable and i
think we have a few questions in the q a
so let me
see if i can do this open up the chat
and let's see we have
okay so we have some questions uh from
the
saster team i thought i saw upwards of
six chats listed i'm only seeing a
couple here so i'm not sure if i've seen
anything
uh so uh gabriella if you want to jump
in at all please uh feel free
yeah absolutely i'm happy to read them
off for you and you can answer how about
that sure
all right first question
can you share specifics on how you
scaled the sales team from smb to
enterprise in a short period of time did
you train existing reps or bring in a
dedicated enterprise sales team
uh so the so thank you for the question
uh we did both uh so when we
first started on those first couple
years of success as i mentioned um we
found success relatively easily it
tended to be smaller accounts smaller
deals that were just pouring in and as a
result our team was
uh was largely acting like an smb sales
team uh on inbound
uh and i'd go so far as to say we were
almost
transaction processing rather than
selling value and really understanding
the market
so uh we took a two-pronged approach to
that
uh we hired uh some enterprise sales
leaders and enterprise sales team
members
um we then
uh put in uh rather than dividing the
teams up we allowed the teams to work
together on accounts so that those with
uh greater experience could
uh also role model and apprentice those
uh that had been coming from an smb shop
and hadn't known anything else other
than that transaction will be selling
and uh and then we overlaid on top of
both of those
uh some very you know traditional uh
methodologies and trainings so medpay
command of the message and so on and
brought in uh training resources to
upskill
last we've made
uh we've made our coaching
uh a critical component of the role of
each uh frontline manager that's
easier said than done because it's a bus
everybody has a busy life uh but we've
also tried to instill that that is uh
that's an important part of what we do
peer-to-peer the way people pair up
obviously what our enable and training
does but the individual role of each
coach and so it's been a multi-pronged
effect or a strategy
wonderful thank you so much for sharing
that um i think we have time for one or
two more
um what new elements do leaders need to
think about and scaling today that they
may not have in the past
well that's a good question uh and
actually maybe i should have hit on this
a little bit more so thank you for
asking it um you know
there's so much that's
different
now than just a few years ago in terms
of so many different go to market
mechanisms so many different ways uh
particularly in a business that is
serving individuals who are also
professionals that work in the companies
that you want to do business with as a
b2b organization
there are so many different ways of
connecting
people
to the challenges or jobs to be done to
then the value that you can provide
across different channels the technology
that drives those channels
uh that it's a it can be either a far
messier far more exciting it can be both
world than it was in the past the one
thing that i would
that i try to avoid personally and has
worked out well
is this idea that we have different
strategies for different channels or
different teams deal with specifically
different deal types and sizes
um i found that that actually
inadvertently starts to create silos and
you actually lose the synergy that you'd
otherwise be able to get so for example
you know we have a professional uh using
our product uh and enjoying it finding a
lot of value in it who's curious about a
team product uh rather than our
individual product for their department
let's say they may purchase uh through
our self-serve funnel and get some
exposure through the trials that we
offer there
but
we we recognize that that that uh
account is in say a larger more complex
organization where they're going to need
more support they need to set up a self
server what have you i'm sorry uh sso uh
single sign-on and things like that and
uh and we want to get a human to
actually help take care of them that
feels relatively simple but automating
that making that efficient and getting
learnings out of those handoffs and
those different channels and getting
them to each other is far more complex
so there's a greater opportunity it may
be a little bit messier but there's also
a lot of creativity is how to do that
well
amazing amazing thank you so much what
do we have a couple more minutes let's
throw one in this is from another
attendee here
um
you had to scale grammarly in a fairly
short amount of time what broke along
the way or what mistakes did you make
that we can avoid
yeah well hopefully um hopefully i've
highlighted some of the mistakes uh i
think you know one i highlighted was uh
keeping i'm assuming too optimistic
about what we could do with
the early team in terms of part-time
dedicated resources who also had a
full-time job uh in their uh in their
roles on the other side of the consumer
side of the house as well as uh
stretching people and using just good
problem solving to stretch people out of
the consumer uh business into the b2b
and then up marketing b2b that that was
that was one learning um that i had um i
think it came with all the right
intention but i think it it made hard on
our people and it slowed us down a
little bit
um
that's one you know the other i think is
actually not moving too fast uh i think
a lot of what people solve for
and what we saw for in the early days
was how do we move really quickly and we
start looking at our growth rates here
over here and things like that in the
first couple years off a very small base
it looks great
um
i think you know if we had i don't say
pump the brakes but if we had
put learning
uh ahead of ever celebrating
uh the revenue line and learning from
losses as much as from wins and setbacks
as much as wins i think would have been
better off i think the third is you know
when you get to actually full enterprise
grade
there are so many long holes in the tent
issues if you get started on early
whether it be certifications
uh and um like you know sock 2 and
things like that or whether it be actual
some back-end functionality in the
product or your data structure to have
you identifying those early i think is
something that we should have done
uh and it took us a couple years to
really get our hands around and i think
that's another thing that again going to
the less sexy side of it probably would
have put more time and energy on that
earlier
[Music]
you